2FA/TOTP coverage for WASM+Identity (#34189)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/security/webassembly/standalone-with-identity/qrcodes-for-authenticator-apps.md

In `Identity/CookieAuthenticationStateProvider.cs`, replace the `LoginAsync` method with the following code:

```csharp
public async Task<FormResult> LoginAsync(string email, string password)
{
    try
    {
        var result = await httpClient.PostAsJsonAsync(
            "login?useCookies=true", new
            {
                email,
                password
            });

        if (result.IsSuccessStatusCode)
        {
            NotifyAuthenticationStateChanged(GetAuthenticationStateAsync());

            return new FormResult { Succeeded = true };
        }
        else if (result.StatusCode == HttpStatusCode.Unauthorized)
        {
            var responseJson = await result.Content.ReadAsStringAsync();
            var response = JsonSerializer.Deserialize<LoginResponse>(
                responseJson, jsonSerializerOptions);

            if (response?.Detail == "RequiresTwoFactor")
            {
                return new FormResult
                {
                    Succeeded = false,
                    ErrorList = [ "RequiresTwoFactor" ]
                };
            }
        }
    }

>     catch { }

Author: But this is mirroring your approach ... from the code that you submitted ...

https://github.com/dotnet/blazor-samples/blob/main/9.0/BlazorWebAssemblyStandaloneWithIdentity/BlazorWasmAuth/Identity/CookieAuthenticationStateProvider.cs#L98

If we remove the try-catch, then how can it return a `FormResult` on an error with `Succeeded` of `false` and the error message for the user?

>     catch { }

Author: That question AND one more note ...

I had to add ...

```csharp
await Acct.TwoFactorRequestAsync(new() { ForgetMachine = true });
```

... to the `Disable2fa` method because if it isn't there and 2FA is disabled by the user and re-enabled, it remembers them on the next login attempt and doesn't ask for a 2FA code. By forgetting the machine when 2FA is disabled, it does request a new 2FA/recovery code on the next login after they've re-enabled 2FA. I think that's a better UE.

One more problem has cropped up. If the user disables 2FA and then re-enables it, I would kind'a expect a new set of recovery codes to get generated. As it stands, the user would have to click the button to get them. I'm going to make it so that a new set of recovery codes is always generated after 2FA is enabled ... I'll do that by checking to see if 2FA enable was successful, and then if there are no recovery codes, I'll make it generate a new batch. Apparently, if they're still on the user's account from the last time that they had them established, the API doesn't generate a new set. I feel that a better UE is if they disable and re-enable that they get a new set of codes. I'll take care of that in the morning. I'm off to 🛌💤 shortly.

                        <div>
                            <button type="submit" class="w-100 btn btn-lg btn-primary">
                                Log in
                            </button>
                        </div>
                        <div class="mt-3">
                            <p>
                                <a href="forgot-password">Forgot password</a>
                            </p>
                            <p>
                                <a href="register">Register as a new user</a>
                            </p>
                        </div>
                    </EditForm>
                </section>
            </div>
        </div>
    </NotAuthorized>
</AuthorizeView>

@code {
    private FormResult formResult = new();
    private bool requiresTwoFactor;
    private string? recoveryCodesRemainingMessage;

    [SupplyParameterFromForm]
    private InputModel Input { get; set; } = new();

    [SupplyParameterFromQuery]
    private string? ReturnUrl { get; set; }

    public async Task LoginUser()
    {
        if (requiresTwoFactor)
        {
            if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(Input.TwoFactorCode))
            {

>                 if (Input.TwoFactorCode.Length == 6)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                // The [RegularExpression] data annotation ensures that the input will be a six-digit
                // authenticator code (######) or eleven-character alphanumeric recovery code (#####-#####)
                if (Input.TwoFactorCode.Length == 6)
```

My immediate reaction when seeing this code is that it would too easily interpret a fat fingered 2FA code as a recovery code. That was until I saw the regex, so I think it's worth calling out in a comment why just comparing the length to 6 is okay.

                            "codes remaining.";
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        else
        {
            formResult = await Acct.LoginAsync(Input.Email, Input.Password);
            requiresTwoFactor = formResult.ErrorList.Contains("RequiresTwoFactor");
            Input.TwoFactorCode = string.Empty;
            formResult.ErrorList = [];
        }

        if (formResult.Succeeded && !string.IsNullOrEmpty(ReturnUrl))
        {
            Navigation.NavigateTo(ReturnUrl);
        }
    }

    private sealed class InputModel
    {
        [Required]
        [EmailAddress]
        [Display(Name = "Email")]
        public string Email { get; set; } = string.Empty;

        [Required]
        [DataType(DataType.Password)]
        [Display(Name = "Password")]
        public string Password { get; set; } = string.Empty;

        [Required]
        [RegularExpression(@"^([0-9]{6})|([A-Z0-9]{5}[-]{1}[A-Z0-9]{5})$", 
            ErrorMessage = "Must be a six-digit authenticator code (######) or " +
            "eleven-character alphanumeric recovery code (#####-#####, dash " +
            "required)")]

>         [Display(Name = "Two-factor code")]
>         public string TwoFactorCode { get; set; } = "123456";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        [Display(Name = "Two-factor Code or Recovery Code")]
        public string TwoFactorOrRecoveryCode { get; set; } = string.Empty;
```

It's probably best to have the display name match the label and have it start out empty like the other input fields. I think we should also rename the property to make it clearer it can be either thing.

Author: I believe that I did this on purpose so that the 2FA field validators don't fire when submitting the initial login request.

I'll try it your way and see if that's the case.

> [!WARNING]
> TOTP codes should be kept secret because they can be used to authenticate multiple times before they expire.

## Namespaces and article code examples

The namespaces used by the examples in this article are:

* `Backend` for the backend server web API project, described as the "server project" in this article.
* `BlazorWasmAuth` for the front-end client standalone Blazor WebAssembly app, described as the "client project" in this article.

These namespaces correspond to the projects in the `BlazorWebAssemblyStandaloneWithIdentity` sample solution in the [`dotnet/blazor-samples` GitHub repository](https://github.com/dotnet/blazor-samples). For more information, see <xref:blazor/security/webassembly/standalone-with-identity/index#sample-apps>.

If you aren't using the `BlazorWebAssemblyStandaloneWithIdentity` sample, change the namespaces in the code examples to use the namespaces of your projects.

All of the changes to the solution covered by this article take place in the `BlazorWasmAuth` project of the `BlazorWebAssemblyStandaloneWithIdentity` solution.

> In this article's code examples, the code lines are artificially broken across two or more lines to eliminate or reduce horizontal scrolling of the article's code blocks. The code executes regardless of these artificial line breaks, but you're welcome to condense the code by removing the artificial line breaks after you paste the code into the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In article examples, code lines are split to reduce horizontal scrolling. These breaks don't affect execution but can be removed when pasting into your project.
```
